.\" Pipe this output to groff -man -Tutf8 | less
.\"
.TH "OPAM-ADMIN-CHECK" 1 "" "Opam-admin 1.1.2" "Opam-admin Manual"
.\" Disable hyphenantion and ragged-right
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
.P
opam\-admin\-check \- Check a local repo for errors.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBopam\-admin check\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... 
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB\-\-color\fR=\fIWHEN\fR (absent=auto)
Colorize the output. \fIWHEN\fR must be `always', `never' or `auto'.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-compat\-mode\-1.0\fR
Compatibility mode with OPAM 1.0
.TP 4
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Print debug message on stdout. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMDEBUG\fR to a non\-empty value.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-git\-version\fR
Print the git version if it exists and exit.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-no\-aspcud\fR
Do not use the external aspcud solver, even if available.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-no\-base\-packages\fR
Do not install base packages (useful for testing purposes). This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMNOBASEPACKAGES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be quiet when installing a new compiler.
.TP 4
\fB\-r\fR \fIROOT\fR, \fB\-\-root\fR=\fIROOT\fR (absent=~/.opam)
Use \fIROOT\fR as the current root path. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMROOT\fR to \fIROOT\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-strict\fR
Fail whenever an error is found in a package definition or a configuration file. The default is to continue silently if possible.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-switch\fR=\fISWITCH\fR
Use \fISWITCH\fR as the current compiler switch. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMSWITCH\fR to \fISWITCH\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Be more verbose. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMVERBOSE\fR to a non\-empty value.
.TP 4
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR
Disable interactive mode and answer yes to all questions that would otherwise be asked to the user. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMYES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB\-\-help\fR[=\fIFMT\fR] (default=pager)
Show this help in format \fIFMT\fR (pager, plain or groff).
.TP 4
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-normalize\fR
Normalize all files in the repository.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information.