.TH OPAM-SWITCH 1 "10/09/2012" "opam 0.6.0" "OPAM Manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
opam-switch - Switch compiler version
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[I]opam switch\f[] -list
.PP
\f[I]opam switch\f[] -current
.PP
\f[I]opam switch\f[] <alias>
.PP
\f[I]opam switch\f[] [-no-base-packages] -install <alias> [-alias-of
<alias>]
.PP
\f[I]opam switch\f[] -remove <alias>
.PP
\f[I]opam switch\f[] [-no-base-packages] -clone <alias>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This command allows to switch between different compiler versions,
installing the compiler if \f[I]opam switch\f[] is used to switch to
that compiler for the first time.
The different compiler versions are totally independant from each other,
meaning that OPAM maintains a separate state (e.g.
list of installed packages...)
 for each.
See the EXAMPLES section to learn how to use this command.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B -list
Displays the list of available compilers.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -current
Displays the current compiler in use.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B <alias>
Switch to the compiler version <alias>, installing it if it is not
already installed.
This is a shortcut to \f[I]opam switch -install <alias>\f[].
The list of available versions is obtained by doing \f[I]opam switch
-list\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -install <alias>
Install a compiler version <alias>.
See EXAMPLES.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -remove <alias>
Remove the compiler <alias>.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -clone <alias>
Install all packages installed in compiler <alias> into the currently
selected compiler.
.RS
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -no-base-packages
Will prevent \f[I]opam switch\f[] from installing the base packages.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -alias-of <alias>
Will switch to compiler version <alias>, but use the name specified as
an argument to -install instead of <alias>.
This is useful to create multiple instances of the same compiler
version.
See EXAMPLES.
.RS
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP \[bu] 2
To install a brand new OCaml 4.00.0 and switch into it as the current
compiler, do:
.PP
\f[C]$\ opam\ switch\ -install\ 4.00.0\f[]
.IP \[bu] 2
To remove OCaml 3.12.1, do:
.PP
\f[C]$\ opam\ switch\ -remove\ 3.12.1\f[]
.IP \[bu] 2
To install OCaml 4.00.0 under alias "foo" such that you will have two
instances of OCaml 4.00.0, each with its own environment (i.e.
list of installed packages, and so on):
.PP
\f[C]$\ opam\ switch\ -install\ foo\ -alias-of\ 4.00.0\f[]
.IP \[bu] 2
To install in "foo" all packages that are installed in "4.00.0":
.PP
\f[C]$\ opam\ switch\ foo\ \ $\ opam\ switch\ -clone\ 4.00.0\f[] # OPAM
.PP
Part of the opam(1) suite
.SH AUTHORS
OCamlPro.
