.\" Pipe this output to groff -man -Tutf8 | less
.\"
.TH "OPAM-PIN" 1 "" "Opam 1.1.0" "Opam Manual"
.\" Disable hyphenantion and ragged-right
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
.P
opam\-pin \- Pin a given package to a specific version.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBopam pin\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIPACKAGE\fR] [\fIPIN\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
This command will 'pin' a package to a specific version, or use a specific source path for installing and upgrading the package. Using \fBopam pin <package> none\fR will undo the 'pinned' status of <package>.
.P
It is possible to pin a package to a specific git commit/tag/branch with \fBopam pin <package> </path/to/git>#<commit>\fR.
.P
To list all the currently pinned packages, call the \fBopam pin\fR without arguments or use \fB\-\-list\fR.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 4
\fIPACKAGE\fR
Package name.
.TP 4
\fIPIN\fR
Specific version, local path, git or darcs url to pin the package to, or 'none' to unpin the package.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-edit\fR
Edit the OPAM file associated to the given package.
.TP 4
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Disable consistency checks.
.TP 4
\fB\-k\fR \fIKIND\fR, \fB\-\-kind\fR=\fIKIND\fR
Force the kind of pinning.
.TP 4
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR
List the currently pinned packages.
.TP 4
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-unpin\fR
Unpin the given package.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.P
These options are common to all commands.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Print debug message on stdout. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMDEBUG\fR to a non\-empty value.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-git\-version\fR
Print the git version if it exists and exit.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-help\fR[=\fIFMT\fR] (default=pager)
Show this help in format \fIFMT\fR (pager, plain or groff).
.TP 4
\fB\-\-no\-base\-packages\fR
Do not install base packages (useful for testing purposes). This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMNOBASEPACKAGES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be quiet when installing a new compiler.
.TP 4
\fB\-r\fR \fIROOT\fR, \fB\-\-root\fR=\fIROOT\fR (absent=~/.opam)
Use \fIROOT\fR as the current root path. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMROOT\fR to \fIROOT\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-switch\fR=\fISWITCH\fR
Use \fISWITCH\fR as the current compiler switch. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMSWITCH\fR to \fISWITCH\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Be more verbose. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMVERBOSE\fR to a non\-empty value.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information.
.TP 4
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR
Disable interactive mode and answer yes to all questions that would otherwise be asked to the user. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMYES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.SH FURTHER DOCUMENTATION
.P
See http://opam.ocamlpro.com.
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Thomas Gazagnaire <thomas.gazagnaire@ocamlpro.com>
.sp -1
.P
Frederic Tuong <tuong@users.gforge.inria.fr>
.sp -1
.P
Vincent Bernardoff <vb@luminar.eu.org>
.sp -1
.P
Guillem Rieu <guillem.rieu@ocamlpro.com>
.SH BUGS
.P
Check bug reports at https://github.com/OCamlPro/opam/issues.