.\" Pipe this output to groff -man -Tutf8 | less
.\"
.TH "OPAM-UPDATE" 1 "" "Opam 1.1.1" "Opam Manual"
.\" Disable hyphenantion and ragged-right
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
.P
opam\-update \- Update the list of available packages.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBopam update\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIREPOSITORIES\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
This command updates each repository that has been previously set up by the \fBopam init\fR or \fBopam repository\fR commands. The list of packages that can be upgraded will be printed out, and the user can use \fBopam upgrade\fR to upgrade them.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 4
\fIREPOSITORIES\fR
List of repository names.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB\-j\fR \fIJOBS\fR, \fB\-\-jobs\fR=\fIJOBS\fR
Set the maximal number of concurrent jobs to use. You can also set it using the \fB$OPAMJOBS\fR environment variable.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-json\fR=\fIFILENAME\fR
Save the result output of an OPAM run in a computer\-readable file
.TP 4
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-repositories\fR
Only update repositories, not development packages.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-sync\-archives\fR
Always sync the remote archives files. This is not a good idea to enable this, unless your really know what your are doing: this flag will make OPAM try to download the archive files for ALL the available packages.
.TP 4
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-upgrade\fR
Automatically run \fBopam upgrade \-\-yes\fR after the update.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.P
These options are common to all commands.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-color\fR=\fIWHEN\fR (absent=auto)
Colorize the output. \fIWHEN\fR must be `always', `never' or `auto'.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-compat\-mode\-1.0\fR
Compatibility mode with OPAM 1.0
.TP 4
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Print debug message on stdout. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMDEBUG\fR to a non\-empty value.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-git\-version\fR
Print the git version if it exists and exit.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-help\fR[=\fIFMT\fR] (default=pager)
Show this help in format \fIFMT\fR (pager, plain or groff).
.TP 4
\fB\-\-no\-aspcud\fR
Do not use the external aspcud solver, even if available.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-no\-base\-packages\fR
Do not install base packages (useful for testing purposes). This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMNOBASEPACKAGES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be quiet when installing a new compiler.
.TP 4
\fB\-r\fR \fIROOT\fR, \fB\-\-root\fR=\fIROOT\fR (absent=~/.opam)
Use \fIROOT\fR as the current root path. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMROOT\fR to \fIROOT\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-strict\fR
Fail whenever an error is found in a package definition or a configuration file. The default is to continue silently if possible.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-switch\fR=\fISWITCH\fR
Use \fISWITCH\fR as the current compiler switch. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMSWITCH\fR to \fISWITCH\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Be more verbose. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMVERBOSE\fR to a non\-empty value.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information.
.TP 4
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR
Disable interactive mode and answer yes to all questions that would otherwise be asked to the user. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMYES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.P
OPAM makes use of the environment variables listed here. Boolean variables are considered true when set to a non\-empty string.
.P
\fIOPAMCOLOR\fR, when set to \fIalways\fR or \fInever\fR, sets a default value for the \-\-color option.
.P
\fIOPAMCURL\fR can be used to define an alternative for the 'curl' command\-line utility to download files.
.P
\fIOPAMDEBUG\fR see option `\-\-debug'.
.P
\fIOPAMJOBS\fR sets the maximum number of parallel workers to run.
.P
\fIOPAMNOASPCUD\fR see option `\-\-no\-aspcud'.
.P
\fIOPAMROOT\fR see option `\-\-root'. This is automatically set by `opam config env \-\-root=DIR' when DIR is non\-default.
.P
\fIOPAMSOLVERTIMEOUT\fR change the time allowance of the internal solver.
.P
\fIOPAMSWITCH\fR see option `\-\-switch'. Automatically set by `opam config env \-\-switch=SWITCH'.
.P
\fIOPAMUTF8MSGS\fR use nice UTF8 characters in OPAM messages.
.P
\fIOPAMVERBOSE\fR see option `\-\-verbose'.
.P
\fIOPAMYES\fR see option `\-\-yes'.
.SH FURTHER DOCUMENTATION
.P
See https://opam.ocaml.org.
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Thomas Gazagnaire <thomas@gazagnaire.org>
.sp -1
.P
Anil Madhavapeddy <anil@recoil.org>
.sp -1
.P
Fabrice Le Fessant <Fabrice.Le_fessant@inria.fr>
.sp -1
.P
Frederic Tuong <tuong@users.gforge.inria.fr>
.sp -1
.P
Louis Gesbert <louis.gesbert@ocamlpro.com>
.sp -1
.P
Vincent Bernardoff <vb@luminar.eu.org>
.sp -1
.P
Guillem Rieu <guillem.rieu@ocamlpro.com>
.SH BUGS
.P
Check bug reports at https://github.com/ocaml/opam/issues.