.\" Pipe this output to groff -man -Tutf8 | less
.\"
.TH "OPAM-INIT" 1 "" "Opam 0.9.0" "Opam Manual"
.\" Disable hyphenantion and ragged-right
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
.P
opam\-init \- Initialize OPAM state.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBopam init\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fINAME\fR] [\fIADDRESS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The \fBinit\fR command creates a fresh client state. This initializes OPAM configuration in \fI~/.opam\fR and configures a default package repository.
.P
Additional repositories can be added later by using the \fBopam repository\fR command.
.P
The local cache of a repository state can be updated by using \fBopam update\fR.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 4
\fIADDRESS\fR (absent=http://opam.ocamlpro.com)
Address of the repository.
.TP 4
\fINAME\fR (absent=default)
Name of the repository.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB\-c\fR \fIVERSION\fR, \fB\-\-comp\fR=\fIVERSION\fR (absent=system)
Which compiler version to use.
.TP 4
\fB\-j\fR \fICORES\fR, \fB\-\-cores\fR=\fICORES\fR (absent=1)
Number of process to use when building packages.
.TP 4
\fB\-k\fR \fIKIND\fR, \fB\-\-kind\fR=\fIKIND\fR
Specify the kind of the repository to be set (the main ones are 'http', 'local', 'git' or 'darcs').
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.P
These options are common to all commands.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Print debug message on stdout. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMDEBUG\fR to a value greater or equal to 2.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-help\fR[=\fIFMT\fR] (default=pager)
Show this help in format \fIFMT\fR (pager, plain or groff).
.TP 4
\fB\-\-no\-base\-packages\fR
Do not install base packages (useful for testing purposes). This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMNOBASEPACKAGES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be quiet when installing a new compiler.
.TP 4
\fB\-r\fR \fIROOT\fR, \fB\-\-root\fR=\fIROOT\fR (absent=/Users/tgazagna/.opam)
Use \fIROOT\fR as the current root path. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMROOT\fR to \fIROOT\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-s\fR \fISWITCH\fR, \fB\-\-switch\fR=\fISWITCH\fR
Use \fISWITCH\fR as the current compiler switch. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMSWITCH\fR to \fISWITCH\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Be more verbose. This is equivalent to setting either \fB$OPAMDEBUG\fR to a value greater or equal to 1 or \fB$OPAMVERBOSE\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information.
.TP 4
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR
Disable interactive mode and answer yes to all questions that would otherwise be asked to the user. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMYES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.SH FURTHER DOCUMENTATION
.P
See http://opam.ocamlpro.com.
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Thomas Gazagnaire <thomas.gazagnaire@ocamlpro.com>
.sp -1
.P
Frederic Tuong <tuong@users.gforge.inria.fr>
.sp -1
.P
Vincent Bernardoff <vb@luminar.eu.org>
.sp -1
.P
Guillem Rieu <guillem.rieu@ocamlpro.com>
.SH BUGS
.P
Check bug reports at https://github.com/OCamlPro/opam/issues.