.\" Pipe this output to groff -man -Tutf8 | less
.\"
.TH "OPAM-REINSTALL" 1 "" "Opam 1.0.1" "Opam Manual"
.\" Disable hyphenantion and ragged-right
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
.P
opam\-reinstall \- Reinstall a list of packages.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBopam reinstall\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIPACKAGES\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
This command does removes the given packages, reinstall them and recompile the right package dependencies.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 4
\fIPACKAGES\fR
List of package names.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-keep\-build\-dir\fR
Keep the build directory. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMKEEPBUILDIR\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-cudf\fR=\fIFILENAME\fR
Save the CUDF request sent to the solver to \fIFILENAME\fR\-<n>.cudf.
.TP 4
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-build\-doc\fR
Build the package documentation. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMBUILDDOC\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
Simply call the solver without actually performing any build/install operations.
.TP 4
\fB\-e\fR \fITAGS\fR, \fB\-\-external\fR=\fITAGS\fR
Display the external packages associated to the given tags.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-fake\fR
WARNING: This option is for testing purposes only! Using this option without care is the best way to corrupt your current compiler environment. When using this option OPAM will run a dry\-run of the solver and then fake the build and install commands.
.TP 4
\fB\-j\fR \fIJOBS\fR, \fB\-\-jobs\fR=\fIJOBS\fR
Set the maximal number of concurrent jobs to use. You can also set it using the OPAMJOBS environment variable.
.TP 4
\fB\-m\fR \fIMAKE\fR, \fB\-\-make\fR=\fIMAKE\fR
Use \fIMAKE\fR as the default 'make' command.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-no\-checksums\fR
Do not verify the checksum of downloaded archives.This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMNOCHECKSUMS\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-output\-json\fR=\fIFILENAME\fR
Save the result output of an OPAM run in a computer\-readable file
.TP 4
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-build\-test\fR
Build and \fBrun\fR the package unit\-tests. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMBUILDTEST\fR to a non\-empty string.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.P
These options are common to all commands.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Print debug message on stdout. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMDEBUG\fR to a value greater or equal to 2.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-git\-version\fR
Print the git version if it exists and exit.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-help\fR[=\fIFMT\fR] (default=pager)
Show this help in format \fIFMT\fR (pager, plain or groff).
.TP 4
\fB\-\-no\-base\-packages\fR
Do not install base packages (useful for testing purposes). This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMNOBASEPACKAGES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be quiet when installing a new compiler.
.TP 4
\fB\-r\fR \fIROOT\fR, \fB\-\-root\fR=\fIROOT\fR (absent=/Users/tgazagna/.opam)
Use \fIROOT\fR as the current root path. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMROOT\fR to \fIROOT\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-switch\fR=\fISWITCH\fR
Use \fISWITCH\fR as the current compiler switch. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMSWITCH\fR to \fISWITCH\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Be more verbose. This is equivalent to setting either \fB$OPAMDEBUG\fR to a value greater or equal to 1 or \fB$OPAMVERBOSE\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information.
.TP 4
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR
Disable interactive mode and answer yes to all questions that would otherwise be asked to the user. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMYES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.SH FURTHER DOCUMENTATION
.P
See http://opam.ocamlpro.com.
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Thomas Gazagnaire <thomas.gazagnaire@ocamlpro.com>
.sp -1
.P
Frederic Tuong <tuong@users.gforge.inria.fr>
.sp -1
.P
Vincent Bernardoff <vb@luminar.eu.org>
.sp -1
.P
Guillem Rieu <guillem.rieu@ocamlpro.com>
.SH BUGS
.P
Check bug reports at https://github.com/OCamlPro/opam/issues.