.\" Pipe this output to groff -man -Tutf8 | less
.\"
.TH "OPAM-LIST" 1 "" "Opam 1.0.1" "Opam Manual"
.\" Disable hyphenantion and ragged-right
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
.P
opam\-list \- Display the list of available packages.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBopam list\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIPATTERNS\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
This command displays the list of available packages, or the list of installed packages if the \fB\-\-installed\fR switch is used.
.P
Unless the \fB\-\-short\fR switch is used, the output format displays one package per line, and each line contains the name of the package, the installed version or \-\- if the package is not installed, and a short description.
.P
The full description can be obtained by doing \fBopam info <package>\fR. You can search through the package descriptions using the \fBopam search\fR command.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 4
\fIPATTERNS\fR
List of package patterns.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
List all the packages which can be installed on the system.
.TP 4
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-installed\fR
List installed packages only.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-installed\-roots\fR
Display only the installed roots.
.TP 4
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-short\fR
Output the names separated by one whitespace instead of using the usual formatting.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.P
These options are common to all commands.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Print debug message on stdout. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMDEBUG\fR to a value greater or equal to 2.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-git\-version\fR
Print the git version if it exists and exit.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-help\fR[=\fIFMT\fR] (default=pager)
Show this help in format \fIFMT\fR (pager, plain or groff).
.TP 4
\fB\-\-no\-base\-packages\fR
Do not install base packages (useful for testing purposes). This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMNOBASEPACKAGES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be quiet when installing a new compiler.
.TP 4
\fB\-r\fR \fIROOT\fR, \fB\-\-root\fR=\fIROOT\fR (absent=/Users/tgazagna/.opam)
Use \fIROOT\fR as the current root path. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMROOT\fR to \fIROOT\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-switch\fR=\fISWITCH\fR
Use \fISWITCH\fR as the current compiler switch. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMSWITCH\fR to \fISWITCH\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Be more verbose. This is equivalent to setting either \fB$OPAMDEBUG\fR to a value greater or equal to 1 or \fB$OPAMVERBOSE\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information.
.TP 4
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR
Disable interactive mode and answer yes to all questions that would otherwise be asked to the user. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMYES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.SH FURTHER DOCUMENTATION
.P
See http://opam.ocamlpro.com.
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Thomas Gazagnaire <thomas.gazagnaire@ocamlpro.com>
.sp -1
.P
Frederic Tuong <tuong@users.gforge.inria.fr>
.sp -1
.P
Vincent Bernardoff <vb@luminar.eu.org>
.sp -1
.P
Guillem Rieu <guillem.rieu@ocamlpro.com>
.SH BUGS
.P
Check bug reports at https://github.com/OCamlPro/opam/issues.