.\" Pipe this output to groff -man -Tutf8 | less
.\"
.TH "OPAM-REMOTE" 1 "" "Opam 1.0.0" "Opam Manual"
.\" Disable hyphenantion and ragged-right
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
.P
opam\-remote \- Manage OPAM repositories.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBopam remote\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIARG\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
This command is used to manage OPAM repositories. To synchronize OPAM with the last versions of the packages available in remote repositories, \fBopam update\fR should be used.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 4
\fICOMMAND\fR
Name of the sub\-command. See the \fBCOMMANDS\fR section for more info.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB\-k\fR \fIKIND\fR, \fB\-\-kind\fR=\fIKIND\fR
Specify the kind of the repository to be set (the main ones are 'http', 'local', 'git' or 'darcs').
.TP 4
\fB\-p\fR \fIINT\fR, \fB\-\-priority\fR=\fIINT\fR
Set the repository priority (bigger is better)
.TP 4
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-short\fR
Output the names separated by one whitespace instead of using the usual formatting.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP 4
\fBadd\fR
Add the repository \fBname\fR available at address \fBaddress\fR to the list of repositories used by OPAM, with priority \fBpriority\fR. The repository priority can be optionally specified with \fB\-\-priority\fR, otherwise the new repository has a higher priority then any other existing repositories. The kind of the repository can be specified with the \fB\-\-kind\fR option, otherwise it will be determined automatically.
.TP 4
\fBremove\fR
Remove the repository named \fBname\fR from the list of repositories used by OPAM.
.TP 4
\fBlist\fR
List all repositories used by OPAM.
.TP 4
\fBpriority\fR
Change the priority of repository named \fBname\fR to \fBpriority\fR.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.P
These options are common to all commands.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Print debug message on stdout. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMDEBUG\fR to a value greater or equal to 2.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-git\-version\fR
Print the git version if it exists and exit.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-help\fR[=\fIFMT\fR] (default=pager)
Show this help in format \fIFMT\fR (pager, plain or groff).
.TP 4
\fB\-\-no\-base\-packages\fR
Do not install base packages (useful for testing purposes). This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMNOBASEPACKAGES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be quiet when installing a new compiler.
.TP 4
\fB\-r\fR \fIROOT\fR, \fB\-\-root\fR=\fIROOT\fR (absent=/Users/tgazagna/.opam)
Use \fIROOT\fR as the current root path. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMROOT\fR to \fIROOT\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-switch\fR=\fISWITCH\fR
Use \fISWITCH\fR as the current compiler switch. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMSWITCH\fR to \fISWITCH\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Be more verbose. This is equivalent to setting either \fB$OPAMDEBUG\fR to a value greater or equal to 1 or \fB$OPAMVERBOSE\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information.
.TP 4
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR
Disable interactive mode and answer yes to all questions that would otherwise be asked to the user. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMYES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.SH FURTHER DOCUMENTATION
.P
See http://opam.ocamlpro.com.
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Thomas Gazagnaire <thomas.gazagnaire@ocamlpro.com>
.sp -1
.P
Frederic Tuong <tuong@users.gforge.inria.fr>
.sp -1
.P
Vincent Bernardoff <vb@luminar.eu.org>
.sp -1
.P
Guillem Rieu <guillem.rieu@ocamlpro.com>
.SH BUGS
.P
Check bug reports at https://github.com/OCamlPro/opam/issues.