.\" Pipe this output to groff -man -Tutf8 | less
.\"
.TH "OPAM-UPGRADE" 1 "" "Opam 0.8.2" "Opam Manual"
.\" Disable hyphenantion and ragged-right
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
.P
opam\-upgrade \- Upgrade the installed package to latest version
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBopam upgrade\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIPACKAGES\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
This command upgrades the installed packages to their latest available versions. More precisely, this command calls the dependency solver to find a consistent state where \fImost\fR of the installed packages are upgraded to their latest versions.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 4
\fIPACKAGES\fR
List of package names.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.P
These options are common to all commands.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Print debug message on stdout.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-help\fR[=\fIFMT\fR] (default=pager)
Show this help in format \fIFMT\fR (pager, plain or groff).
.TP 4
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be quiet.
.TP 4
\fB\-r\fR \fIROOT\fR, \fB\-\-root\fR=\fIROOT\fR (absent=/Users/tgazagna/.opam)
Use \fIROOT\fR as the current root path.
.TP 4
\fB\-s\fR \fISWITCH\fR, \fB\-\-switch\fR=\fISWITCH\fR
Use \fISWITCH\fR as the current compiler switch.
.TP 4
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Be more verbose.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information.
.TP 4
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR
Disable interactive mode and answer yes to all questions that would otherwise beasked to the user.
.SH MORE HELP
.P
Use `opam \fICOMMAND\fR \-\-help' for help on a single command.
.sp -1
.P
Use `opam help patterns' for help on patch matching.
.sp -1
.P
Use `opam help environment' for help on environment variables.
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Thomas Gazagnaire <thomas.gazagnaire@ocamlpro.com>
.SH BUGS
.P
Check bug reports at https://github.com/OCamlPro/opam/issues.