.\" Pipe this output to groff -man -Tutf8 | less
.\"
.TH "OPAM-CONFIG" 1 "" "Opam 1.1.0" "Opam Manual"
.\" Disable hyphenantion and ragged-right
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
.P
opam\-config \- Display configuration options for packages.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBopam config\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIDOMAIN\fR] [\fIARG\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
This command uses OPAM state to output information on how to use installed libraries, update the \fBPATH\fR, and substitute variables used in OPAM packages.
.P
Apart from \fBopam config env\fR, most of these commands are used by OPAM internally, and are of limited interest for the casual user.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 4
\fIDOMAIN\fR
Name of the sub\-command. See the \fBDOMAINS\fR section for more info.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Enable all the global and user configuration options.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-csh\fR
Use csh\-compatible mode for configuring OPAM.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-dot\-profile\fR=\fIFILENAME\fR
Name of the configuration file to update instead of \fI~/.profile\fR or \fI~/.zshrc\fR based on shell detection.
.TP 4
\fB\-e\fR \fIVAL\fR
Backward\-compatible option, equivalent to \fBopam config env\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-fish\fR
Use fish\-compatible mode for configuring OPAM.
.TP 4
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-global\fR
Enable all the global configuration options.
.TP 4
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR
List the current configuration.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-no\-complete\fR
Do not load the auto\-completion scripts in the environment.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-no\-switch\-eval\fR
Do not install `opam\-switch\-eval` to switch & eval using a single command.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-ocamlinit\fR
Modify ~/.ocamlinit to make `#use "topfind"` works in the toplevel.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-profile\fR
Modify ~/.profile (or ~/.zshrc if running zsh) to setup an OPAM\-friendly environment when starting a new shell.
.TP 4
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-rec\fR
Recursive query.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-sexp\fR
Display environment variables as an s\-expression
.TP 4
\fB\-\-sh\fR
Use sh\-compatible mode for configuring OPAM.
.TP 4
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-user\fR
Enable all the user configuration options.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-zsh\fR
Use zsh\-compatible mode for configuring OPAM.
.SH DOMAINS
.TP 4
\fBenv\fR
Return the environment variables PATH, MANPATH, OCAML_TOPLEVEL_PATH and CAML_LD_LIBRARY_PATH according to the currently selected compiler. The output of this command is meant to be evaluated by a shell, for example by doing \fBeval `opam config env`\fR.
.TP 4
\fBsetup\fR
Configure global and user parameters for OPAM. Use \fB opam config setup\fR to display more options. Use \fB\-\-list\fR to display the current configuration options. You can use this command to automatically update: (i) user\-configuration files such as ~/.profile and ~/.ocamlinit; and (ii) global\-configaration files controlling which shell scripts are loaded on startup, such as auto\-completion. These configuration options can be updated using: \fBopam config setup \-\-global\fR to setup the global configuration files stored in \fB~/.opam/opam\-init/\fR and \fBopam config setup \-\-user\fR to setup the user ones. To modify both the global and user configuration, use \fBopam config setup \-\-all\fR.
.TP 4
\fBexec\fR
Execute the shell script given in parameter with the correct environment variables. This option can be used to cross\-compile between switches using \fBopam config exec "CMD ARG1 ... ARGn" \-\-switch=SWITCH\fR
.TP 4
\fBvar\fR
Return the value associated with the given variable. If the variable contains a colon such as \fIpkg:var\fR, then the left element will be understood as the package in which the variable is defined. The variable resolution is done as follows: first, OPAM will check whether \fB$var\fR exists; for package variables, it will look for \fB$pkg_var\fR. If the variable is not found, OPAM will then check whether the variable is implicit. There are two global implicit variables: \fIocaml\-version\fR and \fIpreinstalled\fR and two implicit variables per package: \fIpkg:installed\fR which is either \fB"true"\fR or \fB"false"\fR, and \fIpkg:enable\fR which is either \fB"enable"\fR or \fB"disable"\fR. Finally, OPAM will look into its global and package config files to find whether these variables exist.
.TP 4
\fBlist\fR
Return the list of all variables defined in the listed packages. It is possible to filter the list of variables by giving package names (use \fBglobals\fR to get the list of global variables). No parameter means displaying all the variables.
.TP 4
\fBsubst\fR
Substitute variables in the given files. The strings \fI%{var}%\fR are replaced by the value of the variable \fIvar\fR (see the documentation associated to \fBopam config var\fR).
.TP 4
\fBincludes\fR
returns include options.
.TP 4
\fBbytecomp\fR
returns bytecode compile options.
.TP 4
\fBasmcomp\fR
returns assembly compile options.
.TP 4
\fBbytelink\fR
returns bytecode linking options.
.TP 4
\fBasmlink\fR
returns assembly compile options.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.P
These options are common to all commands.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Print debug message on stdout. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMDEBUG\fR to a non\-empty value.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-git\-version\fR
Print the git version if it exists and exit.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-help\fR[=\fIFMT\fR] (default=pager)
Show this help in format \fIFMT\fR (pager, plain or groff).
.TP 4
\fB\-\-no\-base\-packages\fR
Do not install base packages (useful for testing purposes). This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMNOBASEPACKAGES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be quiet when installing a new compiler.
.TP 4
\fB\-r\fR \fIROOT\fR, \fB\-\-root\fR=\fIROOT\fR (absent=~/.opam)
Use \fIROOT\fR as the current root path. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMROOT\fR to \fIROOT\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-switch\fR=\fISWITCH\fR
Use \fISWITCH\fR as the current compiler switch. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMSWITCH\fR to \fISWITCH\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Be more verbose. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMVERBOSE\fR to a non\-empty value.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information.
.TP 4
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR
Disable interactive mode and answer yes to all questions that would otherwise be asked to the user. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMYES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.SH FURTHER DOCUMENTATION
.P
See http://opam.ocamlpro.com.
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Thomas Gazagnaire <thomas.gazagnaire@ocamlpro.com>
.sp -1
.P
Frederic Tuong <tuong@users.gforge.inria.fr>
.sp -1
.P
Vincent Bernardoff <vb@luminar.eu.org>
.sp -1
.P
Guillem Rieu <guillem.rieu@ocamlpro.com>
.SH BUGS
.P
Check bug reports at https://github.com/OCamlPro/opam/issues.