.\" Pipe this output to groff -man -Tutf8 | less
.\"
.TH "OPAM-INSTALL" 1 "" "Opam 1.1.0" "Opam Manual"
.\" Disable hyphenantion and ragged-right
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
.P
opam\-install \- Install a list of packages.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBopam install\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIPACKAGES\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
This command installs one or more packages to the currently selected compiler. To install packages for another compiler, you need to switch compilers using \fBopam switch\fR. You can remove installed packages with \fBopam remove\fR, and list installed packages with \fBopam list \-i\fR. See \fBopam pin\fR as well to understand how to manage package versions.
.P
This command makes OPAM use the dependency solver to compute the transitive closure of dependencies to be installed, and will also handle conflicts. If the dependency solver returns more than one solution, OPAM will arbitrarily select the first one. If dependencies are to be installed, OPAM will confirm if the installation should proceed.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 4
\fIPACKAGES\fR
List of package names.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-keep\-build\-dir\fR
Keep the build directory. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMKEEPBUILDIR\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-cudf\fR=\fIFILENAME\fR
Save the CUDF request sent to the solver to \fIFILENAME\fR\-<n>.cudf.
.TP 4
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-build\-doc\fR
Build the package documentation. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMBUILDDOC\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
Simply call the solver without actually performing any build/install operations.
.TP 4
\fB\-e\fR \fITAGS\fR, \fB\-\-external\fR=\fITAGS\fR
Display the external packages associated to the given tags.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-fake\fR
WARNING: This option is for testing purposes only! Using this option without care is the best way to corrupt your current compiler environment. When using this option OPAM will run a dry\-run of the solver and then fake the build and install commands.
.TP 4
\fB\-j\fR \fIJOBS\fR, \fB\-\-jobs\fR=\fIJOBS\fR
Set the maximal number of concurrent jobs to use. You can also set it using the OPAMJOBS environment variable.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-json\fR=\fIFILENAME\fR
Save the result output of an OPAM run in a computer\-readable file
.TP 4
\fB\-m\fR \fIMAKE\fR, \fB\-\-make\fR=\fIMAKE\fR
Use \fIMAKE\fR as the default 'make' command.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-no\-checksums\fR
Do not verify the checksum of downloaded archives.This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMNOCHECKSUMS\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-build\-test\fR
Build and \fBrun\fR the package unit\-tests. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMBUILDTEST\fR to a non\-empty string.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.P
These options are common to all commands.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Print debug message on stdout. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMDEBUG\fR to a non\-empty value.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-git\-version\fR
Print the git version if it exists and exit.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-help\fR[=\fIFMT\fR] (default=pager)
Show this help in format \fIFMT\fR (pager, plain or groff).
.TP 4
\fB\-\-no\-base\-packages\fR
Do not install base packages (useful for testing purposes). This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMNOBASEPACKAGES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be quiet when installing a new compiler.
.TP 4
\fB\-r\fR \fIROOT\fR, \fB\-\-root\fR=\fIROOT\fR (absent=~/.opam)
Use \fIROOT\fR as the current root path. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMROOT\fR to \fIROOT\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-switch\fR=\fISWITCH\fR
Use \fISWITCH\fR as the current compiler switch. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMSWITCH\fR to \fISWITCH\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Be more verbose. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMVERBOSE\fR to a non\-empty value.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information.
.TP 4
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR
Disable interactive mode and answer yes to all questions that would otherwise be asked to the user. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMYES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.SH FURTHER DOCUMENTATION
.P
See http://opam.ocamlpro.com.
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Thomas Gazagnaire <thomas.gazagnaire@ocamlpro.com>
.sp -1
.P
Frederic Tuong <tuong@users.gforge.inria.fr>
.sp -1
.P
Vincent Bernardoff <vb@luminar.eu.org>
.sp -1
.P
Guillem Rieu <guillem.rieu@ocamlpro.com>
.SH BUGS
.P
Check bug reports at https://github.com/OCamlPro/opam/issues.