.\" Pipe this output to groff -man -Tutf8 | less
.\"
.TH "OPAM-INFO" 1 "" "Opam 0.9.0" "Opam Manual"
.\" Disable hyphenantion and ragged-right
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
.P
opam\-info \- Display information about specific packages.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBopam info\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIPATTERNS\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
This command displays the information block for the selected package(s).
.P
The information block consists in the name of the package, the installed version if this package is installed in the currently selected compiler, the list of available (installable) versions, and a complete description.
.P
\fBopam list\fR can be used to display the list of available packages as well as a short description for each.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 4
\fIPATTERNS\fR
List of package patterns.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB\-f\fR \fIFIELDS\fR, \fB\-\-field\fR=\fIFIELDS\fR
Only display these fields. You can specify multiple fields by separating them with commas.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.P
These options are common to all commands.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Print debug message on stdout. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMDEBUG\fR to a value greater or equal to 2.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-help\fR[=\fIFMT\fR] (default=pager)
Show this help in format \fIFMT\fR (pager, plain or groff).
.TP 4
\fB\-\-no\-base\-packages\fR
Do not install base packages (useful for testing purposes). This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMNOBASEPACKAGES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be quiet when installing a new compiler.
.TP 4
\fB\-r\fR \fIROOT\fR, \fB\-\-root\fR=\fIROOT\fR (absent=/Users/tgazagna/.opam)
Use \fIROOT\fR as the current root path. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMROOT\fR to \fIROOT\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-s\fR \fISWITCH\fR, \fB\-\-switch\fR=\fISWITCH\fR
Use \fISWITCH\fR as the current compiler switch. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMSWITCH\fR to \fISWITCH\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Be more verbose. This is equivalent to setting either \fB$OPAMDEBUG\fR to a value greater or equal to 1 or \fB$OPAMVERBOSE\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information.
.TP 4
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR
Disable interactive mode and answer yes to all questions that would otherwise be asked to the user. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMYES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.SH FURTHER DOCUMENTATION
.P
See http://opam.ocamlpro.com.
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Thomas Gazagnaire <thomas.gazagnaire@ocamlpro.com>
.sp -1
.P
Frederic Tuong <tuong@users.gforge.inria.fr>
.sp -1
.P
Vincent Bernardoff <vb@luminar.eu.org>
.sp -1
.P
Guillem Rieu <guillem.rieu@ocamlpro.com>
.SH BUGS
.P
Check bug reports at https://github.com/OCamlPro/opam/issues.