.\" Pipe this output to groff -man -Tutf8 | less
.\"
.TH "OPAM-UPLOAD" 1 "" "Opam 0.8.2" "Opam Manual"
.\" Disable hyphenantion and ragged-right
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
.P
opam\-upload \- Upload a package to an OPAM repository.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBopam upload\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIREPO\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
This command uploads an already built package to a remote repository, if the remote repository is not read\-only.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 4
\fIREPO\fR
Specify the repository to upload to.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB\-\-archive\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Specify the archive that will be uploaded to repo://archives/name.version+opam.tar.gz
.TP 4
\fB\-\-descr\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Specify the .descr file that will be uploaded to repo://packages/name.version/descr
.TP 4
\fB\-\-no\-base\-packages\fR
Do not install base packages (useful for testing purposes).
.TP 4
\fB\-\-opam\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Specify the .opam file that will be uploaded to repo://packages/name.version/opam
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.P
These options are common to all commands.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Print debug message on stdout.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-help\fR[=\fIFMT\fR] (default=pager)
Show this help in format \fIFMT\fR (pager, plain or groff).
.TP 4
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be quiet.
.TP 4
\fB\-r\fR \fIROOT\fR, \fB\-\-root\fR=\fIROOT\fR (absent=/Users/tgazagna/.opam)
Use \fIROOT\fR as the current root path.
.TP 4
\fB\-s\fR \fISWITCH\fR, \fB\-\-switch\fR=\fISWITCH\fR
Use \fISWITCH\fR as the current compiler switch.
.TP 4
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Be more verbose.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information.
.TP 4
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR
Disable interactive mode and answer yes to all questions that would otherwise beasked to the user.
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Thomas Gazagnaire <thomas.gazagnaire@ocamlpro.com>
.SH BUGS
.P
Check bug reports at https://github.com/OCamlPro/opam/issues.