.\" Pipe this output to groff -man -Tutf8 | less
.\"
.TH "OPAM-REMOVE" 1 "" "Opam 1.1.0" "Opam Manual"
.\" Disable hyphenantion and ragged-right
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
.P
opam\-remove \- Remove a list of packages.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBopam remove\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIPACKAGES\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
This command removes (i.e. uninstalls) one or more packages currently installed in the currently selected compiler switch. To remove packages installed in another compiler, you need to switch compilers using \fBopam switch\fR or use the \fB\-\-switch\fR flag. This command is the inverse of \fBopam\-install\fR.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 4
\fIPACKAGES\fR
List of package names.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-auto\-remove\fR
Remove all the packages which have not been explicitly installed and which are not necessary anymore. It is possible to prevent the removal of an already\-installed package by running \fBopam install <pkg>\fR. This flag can also be set using the \fB$OPAMAUTOREMOVE\fR configuration variable.
.TP 4
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-keep\-build\-dir\fR
Keep the build directory. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMKEEPBUILDIR\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-cudf\fR=\fIFILENAME\fR
Save the CUDF request sent to the solver to \fIFILENAME\fR\-<n>.cudf.
.TP 4
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-build\-doc\fR
Build the package documentation. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMBUILDDOC\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
Simply call the solver without actually performing any build/install operations.
.TP 4
\fB\-e\fR \fITAGS\fR, \fB\-\-external\fR=\fITAGS\fR
Display the external packages associated to the given tags.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-fake\fR
WARNING: This option is for testing purposes only! Using this option without care is the best way to corrupt your current compiler environment. When using this option OPAM will run a dry\-run of the solver and then fake the build and install commands.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-force\fR
Execute the remove commands of given packages directly, even if they are not considered installed by OPAM.
.TP 4
\fB\-j\fR \fIJOBS\fR, \fB\-\-jobs\fR=\fIJOBS\fR
Set the maximal number of concurrent jobs to use. You can also set it using the OPAMJOBS environment variable.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-json\fR=\fIFILENAME\fR
Save the result output of an OPAM run in a computer\-readable file
.TP 4
\fB\-m\fR \fIMAKE\fR, \fB\-\-make\fR=\fIMAKE\fR
Use \fIMAKE\fR as the default 'make' command.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-no\-checksums\fR
Do not verify the checksum of downloaded archives.This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMNOCHECKSUMS\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-build\-test\fR
Build and \fBrun\fR the package unit\-tests. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMBUILDTEST\fR to a non\-empty string.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.P
These options are common to all commands.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-color\fR=\fIWHEN\fR (absent=auto)
Colorize the output. \fIWHEN\fR must be `always', `never' or `auto'.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-compat\-mode\-1.0\fR
Compatibility mode with OPAM 1.0
.TP 4
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Print debug message on stdout. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMDEBUG\fR to a non\-empty value.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-git\-version\fR
Print the git version if it exists and exit.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-help\fR[=\fIFMT\fR] (default=pager)
Show this help in format \fIFMT\fR (pager, plain or groff).
.TP 4
\fB\-\-no\-aspcud\fR
Do not use the external aspcud solver, even if available.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-no\-base\-packages\fR
Do not install base packages (useful for testing purposes). This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMNOBASEPACKAGES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.TP 4
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Be quiet when installing a new compiler.
.TP 4
\fB\-r\fR \fIROOT\fR, \fB\-\-root\fR=\fIROOT\fR (absent=~/.opam)
Use \fIROOT\fR as the current root path. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMROOT\fR to \fIROOT\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-strict\fR
Fail whenever an error is found in a package definition or a configuration file. The default is to continue silently if possible.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-switch\fR=\fISWITCH\fR
Use \fISWITCH\fR as the current compiler switch. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMSWITCH\fR to \fISWITCH\fR.
.TP 4
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Be more verbose. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMVERBOSE\fR to a non\-empty value.
.TP 4
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information.
.TP 4
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR
Disable interactive mode and answer yes to all questions that would otherwise be asked to the user. This is equivalent to setting \fB$OPAMYES\fR to a non\-empty string.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.P
opam makes use of environment variables listed here.
.P
\fIOPAMCOLOR\fR, when set to \fIalways\fR or \fInever\fR, sets a default value for the \-\-color option
.SH FURTHER DOCUMENTATION
.P
See https://opam.ocaml.org.
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Thomas Gazagnaire <thomas@gazagnaire.org>
.sp -1
.P
Anil Madhavapeddy <anil@recoil.org>
.sp -1
.P
Fabrice Le Fessant <Fabrice.Le_fessant@inria.fr>
.sp -1
.P
Frederic Tuong <tuong@users.gforge.inria.fr>
.sp -1
.P
Louis Gesbert <louis.gesbert@ocamlpro.com>
.sp -1
.P
Vincent Bernardoff <vb@luminar.eu.org>
.sp -1
.P
Guillem Rieu <guillem.rieu@ocamlpro.com>
.SH BUGS
.P
Check bug reports at https://github.com/OCamlPro/opam/issues.